Gorillas live in groups of 3-30.
A female will usually transfer to another group, particularly if the silverback is her father and there are no other suitable males to mate with.
Gorillas are generally quiet. 
Like all tightly knit social groups, gorillas will defend their young. They defend them with their lives.
A gorilla generate about 25 distinct noises.
A gorillas roar can be heard over a mile away. 
A gorillas vocalizations include screams, grunts (indicating contentment) and high-pitched barks (indicating curiosity).
Gorillas normally walk by putting their feet flat and walking on the knuckles of their hands.
Gorillas can live more than 50 years.
Newborn gorillas are very small, weighing only about 4 1/2 pounds.
A baby gorilla depends soley on their mother for at least 3 years. 
Female gorillas mature at 10 to 12 years and males at 11 to 13 years. 
Gorillas communicate with each other by using gestures, body postures, facial expressions, vocal sounds, chestslaps, drumming and odors.
Although gorillas cannot make the sounds of human speech, gorillas are capable of understanding spoken languages. 
Gorillas cry with sounds, not tears.
Gorillas sleep about 13 hours each night and rest for several hours at midday. 
Gorillas build new sleeping nests every night by bending nearby plants into a springy platform, usually on the ground or in low trees. 
There are three types of gorillas: Western Lowland, Eastern Lowland and Mountain gorillas.
Mountain gorillas are the most critically endangered, with conservative estimates of only 400 to 600 living at this time.
Male silverback mountain gorillas gain their distinctive silver tinge at about 13 years old, when they reach adulthood.
Gorillas can climb trees.
The arms of a gorilla are longer than its legs.
The different species of gorilla have different length and color of hair. Plus the shape of their skull and teeth size varies.
Gorillas have a unique nose print!
The Western Lowland gorilla’s big toe is farther apart from his other four toes than other gorilla species.
Eastern gorilla are predominantly leaf eaters (folivorous), while Western gorilla eat lots of fruit, too.
Adult male gorillas’ weight can reach 600 lbs; its average weight is 400-500 lbs.
An adult gorilla’s brain weighs twenty ounces.
Gorilla babies start walking at about 5 months.
Human birth control pills work also on gorillas.
The DNA of gorillas is very similar to humans – about 98% the same. This is more than any other animal in the world.
Gorillas often interact with others from other species and sub species. For the most part these types of interactions are very amicable.
A group of gorillas that live together are called a troop.
Silverbacks are the mature males in troops. They are very kind hearted though, and will even care for orphaned offspring on their own.
When the dominant male in a troop dies or is killed, then the troop will go their separate ways and find new groups to be a part of. 
Gorillas aren’t meat eaters, that is a common myth.
Just about every single gorilla in the world has the same blood type – Type B.
Gorillas are considered to be one of the most intelligent animals in the world. They are able to process information and to think independently.
Every gorilla has a unique fingerprint just like humans.
They have four fingers and a thumb just like humans.
They are able to see in color. All of their senses are very highly developed.
Gorillas don’t have tails as many other primates do.
They are able to grasp items with both their hands and their feet.

